Connections and variables - new draft (#2219)
astronomer/docs: astro/manage-connections-variables.md

To store Airflow connections and variables in local Airflow or Astro, you can choose from different management strategies based on your usecase. Each of these strategies have benefits and limitations related to their security and ease of use. The strategy you choose should ideally be compatible with both your local environment and Astro Deployment for seamless integration. However, based on security requirements, permissions or your use-case, you might need to use one strategy for local and another for Astro Deployment.

Astro allows you to seamlessly integrate [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) of your choice, which is recommended as the most secure and centralized management strategy. We also recommend using [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before deploying to production. If it is not possible to run local Airflow, you can easily create dev ephemeral Deployments to test on Astro using [CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md#create-a-cicd-pipeline) and [Deployments-as-code](manage-deployments-as-code.md#create-a-deployment-from-a-template-file).

> For in-depth information on creating and managing connections see [Connection Basics](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections).

Author: Variable basics does not exist, so need to add that.

Reviewer: It will shortly, let's make a note to add that here when it's published

## Prerequisites

- A locally hosted Astro project created with the Astro CLI. See [Create a project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Choose a connection and variable management strategy

:::tip
If you just want to test your connection and export in JSON or URI format, use Airflow UI to [create your connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#defining-connections-in-the-airflow-ui) and Astro CLI commands [`astro dev object export`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-object-export) or [`astro dev run`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-run) to export.

> :::

Author: move to the end of the topic

#### Benefits

- The UI has features for correctly formatting and testing your connections.
- Easy to change variables or connections to test different usecases on-the-fly.
- You can export your variables from the Airflow UI to a JSON file and import them to the Airflow UI from a JSON file.
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.

#### Limitations

- You cannot export or import connections from the UI for security reasons.
- Managing many connections or variables can become unwieldy.
- In a local environment, you lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

### Secrets backend

A secrets backend is the most secure way to store connections and variables. You can access a secrets backend both locally and on Astro by configuring the appropriate credentials in your Airflow environment. Astronomer recommends this method for all staging and production deployments. See the following documentation for setup steps:

- [Authenticate to clouds locally](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
- [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md)

#### Benefits

> - A centralized location alongside other secrets from other tools and systems used by your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Store objects in a centralized location alongside other secrets used by your organization.
```

- Comply with internal security postures and policies that protect your organization.

> - Recover in the case of an incident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recover objects if your Airflow environments go down.
```

> - Secrets can be shared across different Airflow environments, allowing you to integrate with your new Deployment instead of having to set them manually in the Airflow UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Share secrets across different Airflow environments.
```

- [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md#add-airflow-connections-and-variables-using-environment-variables)

#### Benefits

- If you user `.env` file for local Airflow and your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables.
- You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects#environment-variables).
- In case you want to override variables in the Airflow UI, Airflow variables set in environment variables take precedence over Airflow UI variables. See [Environment variable priority](environment-variables.md#environment-variable-priority)
- On Astro, you can create your connections and variables as environment variables from the Cloud UI. See [use environment variables](environment-variables.md#set-environment-variables-in-the-cloud-ui) for more details. 
- Environment variables marked as **Secret** are encrypted in the Astronomer control plane. See [How environment variables are stored on Astro](environment-variables.md#how-environment-variables-are-stored-on-astro) for details.

> - Limits open connections to your metadata database, especially if you are using your connections and variables outside of task definitions.

Author: fix this line

#### Limitations

- You can't view connections and variables from the Airflow UI. 
- You must restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.
- The environment variables are defined in plain text in `.env` file.
- Connections must be formatted as either a URI or serialized JSON.
- Environment variables are not as secure or centralized compared to a [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

> - You cannot directly export your environment variables from Astro Cloud UI. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects#environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You cannot directly export your environment variables from the Cloud UI to a local Airflow environment. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects#environment-variables).
```
Deployment to Deployment exports are possible. See https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-deployment-connection-copy

## Other strategies

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

While it's possible to manage Airflow connections and variables with these strategies, Astronomer doesn't recommend them at scale: 

```

> - You can use Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables for a Deployment. Airflow objects created with the API are stored in the Airflow metadata database and hence visible on the Airflow UI. This helps you to programmatically update Airflow both locally and on Astro to ensure parity across environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables for a Deployment. Airflow objects created with the API are stored in the Airflow metadata database and hence visible on the Airflow UI.
```

> - For local Astro projects, you can also use `airflow_settings.yaml` for defining your connections and variables. See [Configure `airflow_settings.yaml`](develop-project.md#configure-airflow_settingsyaml-local-development-only) for more details.

Author: - introduce the topic
- add some detail about why or why not do this - and also add a line of how to use airflow_settings.yaml with astro cli.

> - For local Astro projects, you can also use `airflow_settings.yaml` for defining your connections and variables. See [Configure `airflow_settings.yaml`](develop-project.md#configure-airflow_settingsyaml-local-development-only) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For local Astro projects, you can use `airflow_settings.yaml` for defining your connections and variables. See [Configure `airflow_settings.yaml`](develop-project.md#configure-airflow_settingsyaml-local-development-only) for more details.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Manage connections and variables'
title: 'Manage Airflow connections and variables'
id: manage-connections-variables
description: "Learn about different strategies for managing Airflow connections and variables in local environments and on Astro"
---

*Airflow connections* are used for storing credentials and other information necessary for connecting to external services. *Airflow variables* are a generic way to store and retrieve arbitrary content or settings as a simple key value store within Airflow.

> Airflow supports several different methods for managing connections and variables. Each of these strategies has benefits and limitations related to their security and ease of use. The strategy you choose should be compatible with both your local environment and Astro Deployment. However, based on your security requirements, permissions, or use-case, you might need to use one strategy for your local environment and another for your Astro Deployment.
> 
> Use this document to select the right Airflow connection and variable management strategies for your team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this document to select the right Airflow connection and variable management strategies for your team.

Airflow supports several different methods for managing connections and variables. Each of these strategies has benefits and limitations related to their security and ease of use. The strategies you choose should be compatible with both your local environments and Astro Deployments, allowing you to [import and export objects](import-export-connections-variables.md) between the two contexts.
```

> Astro allows you to seamlessly integrate [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) of your choice, which is recommended as the most secure and centralized management strategy. We also recommend using [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before deploying to production. If it is not possible to run local Airflow, you can easily create dev ephemeral Deployments to test on Astro using [CI/CD](set-up-ci-cd.md#create-a-cicd-pipeline) and [Deployments-as-code](manage-deployments-as-code.md#create-a-deployment-from-a-template-file).

Author: @jwitz I added this because Paola wanted to add an Astro value-add statement.

- A locally hosted Astro project created with the Astro CLI. See [Create a project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Choose a connection and variable management strategy

The following table suggests possible management strategies for specific use cases.

| Scenario | Strategy |
|----------|----------|
| I'm getting started and want to quickly create Airflow objects | [Airflow UI](#airflow-ui) |
| I prefer to manage my Airflow variables in a Git repository and to upload directly to Airflow | [Airflow UI](#airflow-ui) |
| I need to keep my connections and variables stored in a centralized and secure location. | [Secrets backend](#secrets-backend) |
| I don't have a secrets backend, but I still want some security and permissions attached to Airflow objects. | [Environment variables](#environment-variables). |

Because variables and connections serve different purposes in Airflow, you might want to use a different strategy for each object type. For example, you can use a secrets backend for connections and use combination of a `json` files and the Airflow UI for variables.

:::tip

> If you just want to test your connection and export in JSON or URI format, use Airflow UI to [create your connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#defining-connections-in-the-airflow-ui) and Astro CLI commands [`astro dev object export`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-object-export) or [`astro dev run`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-run) to export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only want to test connections or export connections in  a JSON or URI format, use the Airflow UI to [manage your connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#defining-connections-in-the-airflow-ui).  You can then use the Astro CLI commands to export the connections in a URI or JSON format. See [Import and export connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md#from-the-airflow-ui-metadata-database).
```

> :::tip
> If you just want to test your connection and export in JSON or URI format, use Airflow UI to [create your connection](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections#defining-connections-in-the-airflow-ui) and Astro CLI commands [`astro dev object export`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-object-export) or [`astro dev run`](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/astro-dev-run) to export.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Why would someone "just want to test their connection"? This feels like information that we should include in the Airflow UI section. Is this noteworthy enough to include alongside all of our high level recommendations?

Author: @jwitz it was already part of high level recommendations, then we took it out - because no one liked it there and so it became a tip. And while building new data pipelines and integrating new systems, we do want to test and get it in URI format.

Reviewer: Ah missed that thread- just updated my suggestion with some new wording.

- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.

#### Limitations

- You cannot export or import connections from the UI for security reasons.
- Managing many connections or variables can become unwieldy.
- In a local environment, you lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

### Secrets backend

A secrets backend is the most secure way to store connections and variables. You can access a secrets backend both locally and on Astro by configuring the appropriate credentials in your Airflow environment. Astronomer recommends this method for all staging and production deployments. See the following documentation for setup steps:

- [Authenticate to clouds locally](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
- [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md)

#### Benefits

- Store objects in a centralized location alongside other secrets used by your organization.
- Comply with internal security postures and policies that protect your organization.
- Recover objects if your Airflow environments go down.
- Share secrets across different Airflow environments.

> - You can configure your secrets backend to allow selective access to connections and variables by using `connections_prefix` or `variables_prefix`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow selective access to connections and variables by using `connections_prefix` and `variables_prefix`. 
```

- Limit the number of open connections to your metadata database, especially if you are using your connections and variables outside of task definitions.

#### Limitations

- A third-party secrets manager is required.
- Separate configurations might be required for using a secrets backend locally and on Astro.
- You cannot use the Airflow UI to view connections and variables.
- You are responsible for ensuring that secrets are encrypted.

### Environment variables

You can use Airflow's system-level environment variables to store connections and variables. This strategy is recommended when you don't have a secrets backend, but you still want to take advantage of security and RBAC features to limit access to connections and variables. You can configure system-level environment variables both locally and on Astro. For setup steps, see:

- [Set environment variables locally](develop-project.md#set-environment-variables-locally)

> - [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md#add-airflow-connections-and-variables-using-environment-variables)

Author: @jwitz did you want to change anything here ?

> - [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md#add-airflow-connections-and-variables-using-environment-variables)

Reviewer: I did but then reverted the edit, so this is not actionable - my mistake

#### Benefits

> - If you user `.env` file for local Airflow and your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you use an `.env` file for your local Airflow environment and your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables.
```

> - You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects#environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects.md#environment-variables).
```

> - You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI. See [Import and export connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md#environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can export environment variables from a local Airflow environment to Astro using the Astro CLI. See [Import and export connections and variables](import-export-connections-variables.md#environment-variables).
```
Style note: "Local Airflow" should always be "local Airflow environment"

> - In case you want to override variables in the Airflow UI, Airflow variables set in environment variables take precedence over Airflow UI variables. See [Environment variable priority](environment-variables.md#environment-variable-priority)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can override Airflow variables set in the Airflow UI. See [Environment variable priority](environment-variables.md#environment-variable-priority)
```

> - On Astro, you can create your connections and variables as environment variables from the Cloud UI. See [use environment variables](environment-variables.md#set-environment-variables-in-the-cloud-ui) for more details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can create your connections and variables as environment variables from the Cloud UI. See [Use environment variables](environment-variables.md#set-environment-variables-in-the-cloud-ui). 
```

- Environment variables marked as **Secret** are encrypted in the Astronomer control plane. See [How environment variables are stored on Astro](environment-variables.md#how-environment-variables-are-stored-on-astro) for details.
- This approach limits the number of open connections to your metadata database, especially if you are using your connections and variables outside of task definitions.

#### Limitations

- You can't view connections and variables from the Airflow UI. 
- You must restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.

> - The environment variables are defined in plain text in `.env` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The environment variables are defined in plain text in your `.env` file.
```

- Connections must be formatted as either a URI or serialized JSON.
- Environment variables are not as secure or centralized compared to a [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

> - You cannot directly export your environment variables from the Cloud UI to a local Airflow environment. See [import and export Airflow objects](import-export-connections-variables.md#environment-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You cannot directly export your environment variables from the Cloud UI to a local Airflow environment. See [Import and export Airflow objects](import-export-connections-variables.md#environment-variables).
```
Style note: Always capitalize the beginnings of a hyperlink to a doc if the link is a doc's name

## Other strategies

While it's possible to manage Airflow connections and variables with these strategies, Astronomer doesn't recommend them at scale: 

- You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables for a Deployment. Airflow objects created with the API are stored in the Airflow metadata database and hence visible on the Airflow UI.
- For local Astro projects, you can use `airflow_settings.yaml` for defining your connections and variables. See [Configure `airflow_settings.yaml`](develop-project.md#configure-airflow_settingsyaml-local-development-only) for more details.

## See also

> - [Import and export Airflow objects](import-export-airflow-objects)
> - [Authenticate to cloud from local](cli/authenticate-to-clouds)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Import and export Airflow objects](import-export-connections-variables.md)
- [Authenticate to cloud from local](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
```

> - [Authenticate to cloud from local](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authenticate to cloud services with user credentials](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Manage Airflow connections and variables'
title: 'Manage Airflow connections and variables on Astro'
id: manage-connections-variables
description: "Manage Airflow Connections and Variables"
---

You can store Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) on local Airflow or Astro using several different methods. Each of these methods has advantages and limitations related to their security, ease of use, and performance. Similarly, there are a few strategies for testing connections and variables on your local computer and deploying these configurations to Astro.

Use this document to understand all available options for managing variables and connections in both local Astro projects and Astro Deployments.

## Prerequisites

- A locally hosted Astro project using Astro CLI. See [Create a project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Choose a connection and variable management strategy

> :::tip 
> 
> It is not necessary to choose the same approach for both connections and variables. Many a times, variables decide the flow of execution of your DAG and you might prefer to check them in to source control. You also might want to view or edit them via Airflow UI. For such cases, you can export your variables in a `json` file from the Airflow UI or using Astro CLI.
> 
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is a good thought but I'm not sure where to put this yet, let's leave it out for now. I don't think we imply that you need to use the same for both object types.

Generally speaking let's avoid adding any new content until the current content is settled.

Author: @jwitz I don't complete agree to this. Although I understand that a special tip might seem too much given that we are just talking about management, I do feel we should include this line at least explicitly. "It is not necessary to choose the same approach for both connections and variables. Many a times, variables decide the flow of execution of your DAG and you might prefer to check them in to source control." may be in the top level introduction paragraph. Because we are infact implying that "connection and variables " go together. 

Are you cool with that remove this from here and add just that one line at the beginning w/o any details ? Because we have enough details in the import/export section.

Reviewer: Tried adding a smaller note on this below

1. Secrets backend 
2. Environment variables
3. Metadata database (any connection or variable which is visible in the Airflow UI)

For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` with one value as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with another value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.
The following table suggests some possible management strategies for specific use cases.

| Scenario | Strategy |
|----------|----------|
| I'm just getting started and want to quickly create Airflow objects | Airflow UI |
| I want to test my connection and export as URI format | Airflow UI. For exporting as URI refer to [Import and export](manage-connections-variables#import-and-export-airflow-connections-and-variables) |
| I want to deploy the same variables across multiple different Airflow environments  | Environment variables or [export as json](manage-connections-variables#astro-cli) |
| I need to keep my connections and variables centralized and as secure as possible | Secrets backend |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Airflow connection and variable management strategies 

Learn about the benefits, limitations, and implementations of each strategy in the following topics 
```

- [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md)

#### Benefits

- For local Airflow, if your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables in the `.env` file.
- You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI.
- In case you want to override, Airflow variables set in environment variables take precedence over Airflow variables defined in the Airflow UI.
- On Astro, you can manage your connections and variables from the Cloud UI.
- Environment variables marked as secret are encrypted in the Astronomer control plane.

#### Limitations

- Connections and variables can't be viewed from the Airflow UI, but you can use them in your DAGs. 
- You have to restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.
- The environment variables are defined in plain text in `.env` and you can only mark them as a secret once you deploy to Astro.
- Connections must be formatted as either a URI or serialized JSON.
- Environment variables are neither secure nor centralized as a secrets backend.

### Airflow API

> You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables on a Deployment. Airflow objects created this way are stored in the Airflow metadata database. This strategy is good for teams setting up large Deployments with many Airflow connections and variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables on a Deployment. Airflow objects created this way are stored in the Airflow metadata database. This strategy is good for teams setting up large Deployments with many Airflow connections and variables.

For more information, see [Airflow API](airflow-api.md).

```

#### Benefits

- You can still manage your secrets using a centralized service like a secrets backend. 
- Programmatically update Airflow both locally and on Astro to ensure parity across environments. 
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.
- You can see your variables and connections in the Airflow UI.
- You can export variables and connections using the Airflow API.

#### Limitations

- You need an additional tool or process to keep your secrets in sync across environments.

> For more information, see [Airflow API](airflow-api.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Import and export connections and variables

In production environments with multiple team members, you might want to export Airflow connections and variables from your local Airflow environment to an Astro Deployment. Similarly, you might want to import connections and variables from an Astro Deployment to work on a project locally. Use the following topics to learn different strategies for exporting and importing Airflow objects based on where they are stored:

> #### Secrets backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Secrets backend
```

> If you use a secrets backend, the method for managing connections and variables between local environments and Deployments will vary based on your secrets backend and it's API. You can still export the connections and variables from local, but you have to rely on secret manager's API to migrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a secrets backend, the method for managing connections and variables between local environments and Deployments will vary based on your secrets backend and its API. You can still export the connections and variables from local, but you have to rely on secret manager's API to migrate.
```

> #### Environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Environment variables
```

- You can only import connections and variables from the `.env` file from local to Astro using Astro CLI.
```bash
# import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
```

> #### Airflow metadata database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Airflow metadata database
```

> Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database can be exported using Astro CLI or Airflow API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database can be exported using the Astro CLI or Airflow API. An Airflow connection or variable is stored in the metadata database if it's viewable in the Airflow UI under **Connections** or **Variables**.
```

##### Astro CLI

> - You can use the following commands to export connections and variables from local and then deploy to Astro. This will deploy connections and variables as environment variables.
> ```bash
> # export all airflow objects including connections and variables to `.env` file in URI format
> astro dev object export --env-export 
> 
> # import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
> astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
> ```
> 
> - You can also export only variables from local and then either directly deploy to Astro Deployment or check-in to source control for CI/CD.
> ```bash
> # export variables in JSON format to vars.json in your astro project's include dir
> astro dev run variables export /usr/local/airflow/include/vars.json
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to export your Airflow connections and variables to Astro as environment variables:

```bash
# export all airflow objects including connections and variables to `.env` file in URI format
astro dev object export --env-export 

# import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
``

You can also export only variables from your local environment and then deploy them to Astro as part of your `include` folder:

```bash
# export variables in JSON format to vars.json in your astro project's include dir
astro dev run variables export /usr/local/airflow/include/vars.json
``

You can't automatically import Airflow connections and variables from Astro to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment inspect` and then copy them into your `.env` file. See [Manage Deployments as code](manage-deployments-as-code.md#inspect-a-deployment). 
```

Author: @jwitz the ideal command is `astro deployment variable list` not `inspect` . The reason I did not include this was related to your earlier feedback that "too many commands" . Because then we can also talk about using `astro dev bash` and `printenv` to get the environment variables for local run .  Thoughts ? Let's talk more on this during our call may be

description: "Manage Airflow Connections and Variables"
---

You can store Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) on local Airflow or Astro using several different methods. Each of these methods has advantages and limitations related to their security, ease of use, and performance. Similarly, there are a few strategies for testing connections and variables on your local computer and deploying these configurations to Astro.

:::info

Airflow checks for the value of an Airflow variable or connection in the following order:

*Secrets Backend (If defined, else skipped) → Environment Variables → Metastore DB*

:::

Use this document to understand all available options for managing variables and connections in both local Astro projects and Astro Deployments.

## Prerequisites

- A locally hosted Astro project using Astro CLI. See [Create a project](http://localhost:3000/astro/develop-project#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](http://localhost:3000/astro/create-deployment).

## Choose a strategy

> We recommend that you use [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before Deploying to Astro. There are 5 different approaches that are discussed here and you can choose the strategy that suits you best. Regardless of the strategy you choose, keep in mind the following:

Author: Hey @jwitz I think want to write `should be `instead of `to be` in this sentence: "Your Airflow connection and variable management strategy to be compatible with both your local testing workflows as well as your Astro workflows."

- To minimize complexity, try to use only one management strategy per project.
- In an ideal scenario, your strategy for managing connections and variables locally should be compatible with your management strategy on Astro. 

### Airflow UI

:::tip IMPORTANT

Astronomer recommends this for local Airflow

:::

> The easiest and most accessible way to create Airflow connections and variables locally is through the Airflow UI. This experience is similar across all different flavours of Airflow. This is also the first step for creating, testing and generating the URI/JSON format for a new connection.

Author: @jwitz can we add generate the URI/JSON format for a connection ? - because that is one of the main use-case as well?

**Benefits**

- The UI helps you correctly format and test your connections
- The UI also allows you to import/export your variables to/from Airflow
- Useful in generating the URI/JSON format connection string for storing in a Secrets Manager
- Ability to export connections and variables using API
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database

**Limitations**

- You can ***only*** automatically export your variables to Astro as environment variables
- Managing many connections or variables this way can become unwieldy.
- It's not the most secure option for sensitive variables.

> - For local Airflow, you'll lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

Author: @jwitz so I am changing some terms here. UI can only export variables and not connections. so we can't use the word objects here.

:::

Astronomer recommends using the [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before deploying to Astro. Your Airflow connection and variable management strategies should be compatible with both your local testing workflows and your Astro workflows. However, you might need to use one strategy for storing variables and a different strategy for storing connections.

The following table suggests some possible management strategies for specific use cases.

| Scenario | Strategy |
|----------|----------|
| I'm just getting started and want to quickly create Airflow objects | Airflow UI |
| I want to test my connection and export as URI format | Airflow UI. For exporting as URI refer to [Import and export](manage-connections-variables#import-and-export-airflow-connections-and-variables) |
| I want to deploy the same variables across multiple different Airflow environments  | Environment variables or [export as json](manage-connections-variables#astro-cli) |

> | I need to keep my connections and variables centralized and as secure as possible | Secrets backend |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| I need to keep my connections and variables centralized and as secure as possible | Secrets backend |

```

Docusaurus can be particular about line breaks.

| Strategy | Storage location | Visible via UI | Encrypted |
|-----------|----------------|-----|------|
| Airflow UI | Airflow metadata database | Yes | Yes. See [Fernet Key](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/security/secrets/fernet.html#fernet) | 
| Airflow API | Airflow metadata database | Yes | Yes. See [Fernet Key](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/security/secrets/fernet.html#fernet) |
| Environment variables | On local environments, in plain text. On Astro, in the control plane. | No | Yes, on Astro only. See [Data Protection](data-protection.md) | 
| Secrets backend | Third-party secrets backend | No | Refer to your secrets backend tool documentation. |

#### How Astro prioritizes storage locations

If the same variable or connection is stored in multiple location, Astro applies and overrides your configurations in the following order:

1. Secrets backend 
2. Environment variables
3. Metadata database (any connection or variable which is visible in the Airflow UI)

> For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` with one value as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with another value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` with one value as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with another value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.

```

## Airflow connection and variable management strategies 

Learn about the benefits, limitations, and implementations of each strategy in the following topics 
### Airflow UI

> The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow or you want to get your DAGs running quickly or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format
```

#### Benefits

- The UI has features for correctly formatting and testing your connections.

> - You can export your variables from the Airflow UI, as well as import them to the Airflow UI from a json file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can export your variables from the Airflow UI, as well as import them to the Airflow UI from a JSON file.
```

- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.

#### Limitations

- You can only automatically export your Airflow variables to Astro as environment variables.
- Managing many connections or variables can become unwieldy.
- It's not the most secure option for sensitive variables.

> - In a local environment, you'll lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In a local environment, you lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.
```

Future tense (you will [verb]) can be tricky in docs. We kind of default to the present tense and use "If+then" sentence construction because English future tense can be tricky for folks who use other languages as their primary and there isn't a significant grammatical difference in English between "If A happens, B will occur" and "If A happens, B occurs" like there can be with other language grammars.

- You cannot use the Airflow UI to view connections and variables.
- You are responsible to ensure the secrets are encrypted.

### Environment variables

You can use Airflow's system-level environment variables to store connections and variables. This strategy is recommended when you don't have a secrets backend, but you still want to take advantage of security and RBAC features to limit access to connections and variables. You can configure system-level environment variables both locally and on Astro. For setup steps, see:

- [Set environment variables locally](develop-project.md#set-environment-variables-locally)
- [Set environment variables on Astro](environment-variables.md)

#### Benefits

- For local Airflow, if your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables in the `.env` file.
- You can export environment variables from local Airflow to Astro using the Astro CLI.
- In case you want to override, Airflow variables set in environment variables take precedence over Airflow variables defined in the Airflow UI.
- On Astro, you can manage your connections and variables from the Cloud UI.

> - Environment variables marked as secret are encrypted in the Astronomer control plane.

Reviewer: I would go for `**Secret**`, that's how we refer to it in https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/environment-variables!

#### Limitations

- Connections and variables can't be viewed from the Airflow UI, but you can use them in your DAGs. 

> - You have to restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You must restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.
```

> - The environment variables are defined in plain text in `.env` and you can only mark them as a secret once you deploy to Astro.

Reviewer 2: However we land on the `secret` vs secret formatting, needs to be consistent here.

- Connections must be formatted as either a URI or serialized JSON.

> - Environment variables are neither secure nor centralized as a secrets backend.

Reviewer 2: > - Environment variables are neither secure nor centralized when used as a secrets backend.
or
> - Environment variables are not as secure or centralized compared to a secrets backend.

Author: the second one is apt to this scenario; the first one is changing the meaning. and I think we should also link to the secrets backend section

### Airflow API

> You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables on a Deployment. Airflow objects created this way are stored in the Airflow metadata database. This strategy is good for teams setting up large Deployments with many Airflow connections and variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables for a Deployment. Airflow objects created this way are stored in the Airflow metadata database. This strategy is good for teams setting up large Deployments with many Airflow connections and variables.
```
@jwitz On Deployments? In Deployments? Either? Something to add to the terminology conversation?

For more information, see [Airflow API](airflow-api.md).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Benefits

- You can still manage your secrets using a centralized service like a secrets backend. 
- Programmatically update Airflow both locally and on Astro to ensure parity across environments. 
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.
- You can see your variables and connections in the Airflow UI.
- You can export variables and connections using the Airflow API.

#### Limitations

- You need an additional tool or process to keep your secrets in sync across environments.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Import and export connections and variables

> In production environments with multiple team members, you might want to export Airflow connections and variables from your local Airflow environment to an Astro Deployment. Similarly, you might want to import connections and variables from an Astro Deployment to work on a project locally. Use the following topics to learn different strategies for exporting and importing Airflow objects based on where they are stored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production environments with multiple team members, you might want to export Airflow connections and variables from an Airflow environment and import them to another environment. For example, you might want to export an Airflow connection you use locally and import it to an Astro Deployment after you've tested it. 

Use the following topics to learn different strategies for exporting and importing Airflow objects based on where they are stored:
```

Reviewer 2: > The following sections explain the benefits, limitations, and implementations of each strategy in more detail.

For the last sentence to be consistent with suggestion with previous section.

### Secrets backend

> If you use a secrets backend, the method for managing connections and variables between local environments and Deployments will vary based on your secrets backend and its API. You can still export the connections and variables from local, but you have to rely on secret manager's API to migrate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use a secrets backend, the method for managing connections and variables between local environments and Deployments varies based on your secrets backend and its API. You can still export the connections and variables from local, but you must rely on secret manager's API to migrate.
```

### Environment variables

> - You can only import connections and variables from the `.env` file from local to Astro using Astro CLI.
> ```bash
> # import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
> astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import Airflow connections and variables to Astro, you must store them as environment variables in your `.env` file. Run the following command to export all environment variables to your `.env` file to a Deployment on Astro:

```bash
# import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
```

Author: @jwitz the variable import command is redundant here, because the intention was to include all the commands as the bottom in the Astro CLI section. Would it make more sense to keep this cleaner to include the following :

- You can easily export connections and variables stored as Environment variables in `.env` file to another local Airflow
- You cannot import connections and variables to Astro, but can use CLI for listing the environment variables. The secret values are redacted though when using CLI. (And then link to the Astro CLI command)

```

### Airflow metadata database

> Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database can be exported using the Astro CLI or Airflow API. An Airflow connection or variable is stored in the metadata database if it's viewable in the Airflow UI under **Connections** or **Variables**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can export Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database using the Astro CLI or Airflow API. An Airflow connection or variable is stored in the metadata database if it's viewable in the Airflow UI under **Connections** or **Variables**.
```

##### Astro CLI

> Run the following command to export your Airflow connections and variables to Astro as environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to export your Airflow connections and variables and import them to Astro as environment variables:
```

```bash
# export all airflow objects including connections and variables to `.env` file in URI format
astro dev object export --env-export 

# import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env

> ``

Reviewer: Sorry I meant these to be three ticks!

You can also export only variables from your local environment and then deploy them to Astro as part of your `include` folder:

```bash
# export variables in JSON format to vars.json in your astro project's include dir
astro dev run variables export /usr/local/airflow/include/vars.json

> ``

Reviewer: Sorry I meant these to be three ticks

> You can't automatically import Airflow connections and variables from Astro to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. 
```

| Secrets backend | Third-party secrets backend | No | Refer to your secrets backend tool documentation. |

#### How Astro prioritizes storage locations

If the same variable or connection is stored in multiple location, Astro applies and overrides your configurations in the following order:

1. Secrets backend 
2. Environment variables
3. Metadata database (any connection or variable which is visible in the Airflow UI)

For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` with one value as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with another value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.

## Airflow connection and variable management strategies 

The following sections explain the benefits, limitations, and implementations of each strategy in more detail.

### Airflow UI

The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format

> 

Reviewer 2: A nice to have or fast follow: Some of these sections have related links listed before the H3 and H4 levels (like secrets backend). For example, in this section, would it make sense to have some links to the different Learn resources about Airflow connections?

- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.

#### Limitations

- You can only automatically export your Airflow variables to Astro as environment variables.
- Managing many connections or variables can become unwieldy.
- It's not the most secure option for sensitive variables.
- In a local environment, you lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

### Secrets backend

A secrets backend is the most secure way to store connections and variables. You can access a secrets backend both locally and on Astro by configuring the appropriate credentials in your Airflow environment. Astronomer recommends this method for all critical production workflows. See the following documentation for setup steps:

- [Authenticate to clouds locally](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
- [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md)

#### Benefits

- It's compatible with strict organization security standards.
- All connections and variables are centralized and standardized.
- Secrets that can be shared across different Airflow environments.

> - You can configure secrets backend to allow selective access to connections and variables based on naming convention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You can configure your secrets backend to allow selective access to connections and variables based on naming convention.
```

---

> sidebar_label: 'Manage Airflow connections and variables'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Manage connections and variables'
```

title: 'Manage Airflow connections and variables on Astro'
id: manage-connections-variables
description: "Manage Airflow Connections and Variables"
---

You can store Airflow [connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/connection.html) and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/variable.html) locally in Airflow or remotely on Astro using several different methods. Each of these methods has advantages and limitations related to their security, ease of use, and performance. Similarly, there are a few strategies for testing connections and variables on your local computer and deploying these configurations to Astro.

Use this document to understand all available options for managing variables and connections in both local Astro projects and Astro Deployments.

## Prerequisites

- A locally hosted Astro project created with the Astro CLI. See [Create a project](develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](create-deployment.md).

## Choose a connection and variable management strategy

:::tip 

> It is not necessary to choose the same approach for both connections and variables. Variables often determine your DAG's flow of execution and you might prefer to check them into source control. You also might want to view or edit them in the Airflow UI. For such cases, you can export your variables in a `json` file from the Airflow UI or using Astro CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are not required to use the same approach for both connections and variables. Variables often determine your DAG's flow of execution, and you might prefer to check variables into source control. You  can also view or edit variables in the Airflow UI. In this case, you can export your variables in a `json` file from the Airflow UI or using Astro CLI.
```

> Variables often determine your DAG's flow of execution and you might prefer to check them into source control. 

I think I'm a little unclear about this sentence. Does choosing to check Variables into source control affect the approach a user takes for connections and variables? Why?

Author: @lzdanski Values saved in variables can either be used to dynamically generate a DAG or just populate a file name based on production or dev environment, or chose to use a different table name for testing, or even skip a task. Variables in Airflow can be defined as a json, so essentially a key value pair rather than a simple static value. This is the reason, I wanted to mention this as a scenario, that many people might want to check in their variables because it represents an execution flow of their DAG and DAGs would be easier to debug if we know a variable as touched.

Reviewer 2: @manmeetkaur - how does something like that look? we might need a judgement call from another writer.

> :::tip 
> 
> It is not necessary to choose the same approach for both connections and variables. Variables often determine your DAG's flow of execution and you might prefer to check them into source control. You also might want to view or edit them in the Airflow UI. For such cases, you can export your variables in a `json` file from the Airflow UI or using Astro CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This note is still confusing to me, because it states that you can use different strategies for managing connections and variables, but then we only explain how to use two different strategies for managing variables. Can we address this use case separately in another PR and focus on the core content so we can publish this?

Author: I can remove the last line "for such cases..." which is actually a brief one-liner example of a case. we can take that as a separate PR. but I do want to make a note about two different approaches are totally fine. The example use-case can be taken up in a separate PR.

Reviewer: We have a line for that below though: 

> However, you might need to use one strategy for storing variables and a different strategy for storing connections.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Astronomer recommends using the [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before deploying to Astro. Your Airflow connection and variable management strategies should be compatible with both your local testing workflows and your Astro workflows. However, you might need to use one strategy for storing variables and a different strategy for storing connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends using the [Astro CLI](cli/overview.md) to run a local Airflow environment and to test your DAGs locally before deploying them to Astro. Your Airflow connection and variable management strategies must be compatible with both your local testing workflows and your Astro workflows. However, you might need to use one strategy for storing variables and a different strategy for storing connections.
```

I notice myself making these changes as I go from reading to understanding. Is the "must be compatible" true?

Author: not necessarily. many a times because of security policies the local/dev vs prod strategies are completely different. Per me, "must" says it is a rule, whereas what we recommend is "similar strategy means easy transition between environments".

Reviewer 2: Got it! I've adjusted my suggestion to remove the "must"

> The following table suggests some possible management strategies for specific use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table suggests possible management strategies for specific use cases.
```

Reviewer 2: I love this table BTW.

| Scenario | Strategy |
|----------|----------|

> | I'm just getting started and want to quickly create Airflow objects | Airflow UI |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| I'm getting started and want to quickly create Airflow objects | Airflow UI |
```

> | I want to test my connection and export as URI format | Airflow UI. For exporting as URI refer to [Import and export](manage-connections-variables#import-and-export-airflow-connections-and-variables) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| I want to test my connection and export in a URI format | Airflow UI. See [Import and export](manage-connections-variables#import-and-export-airflow-connections-and-variables) |
```

> | I want to deploy the same variables across multiple different Airflow environments  | Environment variables or [export as json](manage-connections-variables#astro-cli) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| I want to deploy the same variables across multiple different Airflow environments  | Environment variables or [JSON + Astro CLI](manage-connections-variables#astro-cli) |
```

| I need to keep my connections and variables centralized and as secure as possible | Secrets backend |

### Storage and encryption

> If you want to choose a strategy based on how Airflow connections and variables are stored, the following table shows which storage and encryption methods that each strategy uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To choose a strategy based on how Airflow connections and variables are stored, use the following table to understand which storage and encryption methods that each strategy uses.
```

| Strategy | Storage location | Visible via UI | Encrypted |
|-----------|----------------|-----|------|
| Airflow UI | Airflow metadata database | Yes | Yes. See [Fernet Key](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/security/secrets/fernet.html#fernet) | 
| Airflow API | Airflow metadata database | Yes | Yes. See [Fernet Key](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/security/secrets/fernet.html#fernet) |
| Environment variables | On local environments, in plain text. On Astro, in the control plane. | No | Yes, on Astro only. See [Data Protection](data-protection.md) | 

> | Secrets backend | Third-party secrets backend | No | Refer to your secrets backend tool documentation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Secrets backend | Third-party secrets backend | No | Refer to your secrets backend tool documentation |
```

#### How Astro prioritizes storage locations

If you store the same variable or connection in multiple locations, Astro applies and overrides your configurations in the following order:

> 1. Secrets backend 
> 2. Environment variables
> 3. Metadata database (any connection or variable which is visible in the Airflow UI)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Secrets backend 
- Environment variables
- Metadata database (any connection or variable which is visible in the Airflow UI)
```

> For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` with one value as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with another value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you set `AIRFLOW_VAR_MY_VARIABLE` as an environment variable and you set the same variable `MY_VARIABLE` with a different value in the Airflow UI, Astro uses the value set in the environment variable.
```

## Airflow connection and variable management strategies 

The following sections explain the benefits, limitations, and implementations of each strategy in more detail.

### Airflow UI

> The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format.
```

> The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI. This experience is the same for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're just getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The quickest way to create Airflow connections and variables is through the Airflow UI, which uses the same process for both local Airflow environments and Astro Deployments. Astronomer recommends this method if you're getting started with Airflow, you want to get your DAGs running quickly, or if you want to export connections in a URI/JSON format.
```

Is there a reason you chose the word "experience" vs "process"?

Author: tagging @jwitz here to make this call.

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite right, resolving this suggestion.

#### Benefits

- The UI has features for correctly formatting and testing your connections.

> - You can export your variables from the Airflow UI, as well as import them to the Airflow UI from a JSON file.

Author: @lzdanski if I want to write, export to a JSON file, can we edit like this:

"You can export your variables from the Airflow UI to a JSON file and import them to the Airflow UI from a JSON file."

- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.

#### Limitations

- You can only automatically export your Airflow variables to Astro as environment variables.
- Managing many connections or variables can become unwieldy.
- It's not the most secure option for sensitive variables.
- In a local environment, you lose your connections and variables if you delete your metadata database with `astro dev kill`.

### Secrets backend

A secrets backend is the most secure way to store connections and variables. You can access a secrets backend both locally and on Astro by configuring the appropriate credentials in your Airflow environment. Astronomer recommends this method for all critical production workflows. See the following documentation for setup steps:

- [Authenticate to clouds locally](cli/authenticate-to-clouds.md)
- [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md)

#### Benefits

- It's compatible with strict organization security standards.
- All connections and variables are centralized and standardized.

> - Secrets that can be shared across different Airflow environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Secrets can be shared across different Airflow environments.
```

For more information, see [Airflow API](airflow-api.md).

#### Benefits

- You can still manage your secrets using a centralized service like a secrets backend. 
- Programmatically update Airflow both locally and on Astro to ensure parity across environments. 
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database.
- You can see your variables and connections in the Airflow UI.
- You can export variables and connections using the Airflow API.

#### Limitations

- You need an additional tool or process to keep your secrets in sync across environments.

## Import and export connections and variables

In production environments with multiple team members, you might want to export Airflow connections and variables from an Airflow environment and import them to another environment. For example, you can export an Airflow connection that you use locally and import it to an Astro Deployment after you've tested it. 

The following sections describe different strategies for exporting and importing Airflow objects based on where you store them:

### Secrets backend

> If you use a secrets backend, the method for managing connections and variables between local environments and Deployments varies based on your secrets backend and its API. You can still export the connections and variables from local, but you must rely on secret manager's API to migrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a secrets backend, your secrets backend and its API determines how you manage connections and variables between local environments and Deployments. Refer to your secrets backend provider's documentation to learn how to manage resources using API calls.
```

### Environment variables

> You can easily import connections and variables stored as Environment variables in `.env` file to another local Airflow by copying the `.env` file to another Astro project. To import Airflow connections and variables to Astro, you can refer the commands defined in [Astro CLI](#using-astro-cli) to import all environment variables in your `.env` file to a Deployment on Astro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can import connections and variables stored as Environment variables in `.env` file to another local Airflow by copying the `.env` file to another Astro project. To import Airflow connections and variables to Astro, refer to the commands defined in [Astro CLI](#using-astro-cli) to import all environment variables in your `.env` file to a Deployment on Astro.
```

### Airflow metadata database

> You can export Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database using the [Astro CLI](#using-astro-cli) or [Airflow API](#using-airflow-api). An Airflow connection or variable is stored in the metadata database if it's viewable in the Airflow UI under **Connections** or **Variables**. For variables, you can also use [Airflow UI](#using-airflow-ui) to import or export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can export Airflow connections and variables stored in metadata database using the [Astro CLI](#using-the-astro-cli), [Airflow UI](#using-the-airflow-ui), or [Airflow API](#using-the-airflow-api). An Airflow connection or variable is stored in the metadata database if it's viewable in the Airflow UI under **Connections** or **Variables**. For variables, you can also use [Airflow UI](#using-airflow-ui) to import or export.
```

> #### Using Astro CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Using the Astro CLI
```

> Run the following command to import or export your Airflow connections and variables and import them to Astro as environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the following command to import or export your Airflow connections and variables, and then import them to Astro as environment variables:
```

```bash
# export all airflow objects including connections and variables to `.env` file in URI format
astro dev object export --env-export 

# import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
```

> You can also export only variables from your local environment and then deploy them to Astro as part of your `include` folder:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also export only variables from your local environment, and then deploy them to Astro as part of your `include` folder:
```

```bash
# export variables in JSON format to vars.json in your astro project's include dir
astro dev run variables export /usr/local/airflow/include/vars.json
```

> You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. Refer

Author: ```suggestion
You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. Refer to [CLI examples](astro-deployment-variable-create.md#examples).
```

> You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. Refer

Reviewer 2: Missing a link/sentence at the end here!

> You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. Refer to [CLI examples](astro-deployment-variable-create.md#examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't automatically export Airflow connections and variables from Astro and import them to a local environment if they're set as environment variables. However, you can pull down all non-secret environment variables from a Deployment using `astro deployment variable list` and then copy them into your `.env` file. Refer to [CLI examples](cli/astro-deployment-variable-create.md#examples).
```

> #### Using Airflow API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Using the Airflow REST API
```

> To export connections from any Airflow environment, you can use the [List Connections API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connections) and [Get Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connection) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export connections from any Airflow environment, you can use the [List Connections API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connections) and [Get Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connection).
```

To export variables from any Airflow environment, you can use [List Variables API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variables) and [Get Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variable).

To import connections or variables to any Airflow environment, you can use the [Create Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_connection) and [Create Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_variables) respectively.

> #### Using Airflow UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Using the Airflow UI
```

> To export variables from a local Airflow or Astro Deployment, go to the **Admin** menu on the Airflow UI, click on **Variables** and select the variables you want to export. Then, click on **Export** option in the **Actions** dropdown. The file `variables.json` will be downloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To export variables from a local Airflow or Astro Deployment, go to the **Admin** menu on the Airflow UI, click on **Variables** and select the variables you want to export. Then, click on **Export** option in the **Actions** dropdown. This downloads the `variables.json` file locally.
```

![Export Variables](/img/docs/airflow-ui-export-vars.png)

> To import variables to a local Airflow or Astro Deployment from a `json` file, go to the **Admin** menu on the Airflow UI, click on **Variables** and click on **Choose file**. Select the file you want to import and then click on **Import Variables**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To import variables to a local Airflow environment or Astro Deployment from a `json` file, go to **Admin** in the Airflow UI, click **Variables**, then and click **Choose file**. Select the file you want to import and then click **Import Variables**.
```

![Import Variables](/img/docs/airflow-ui-import-vars.png)

> Learn more about [connections](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections) in Learn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Connections](https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/connections) for more information about managing connections on Airflow.
```

## Prerequisites

- A locally hosted Astro project using Astro CLI. See [Create a project](http://localhost:3000/astro/develop-project#create-an-astro-project).
- A Deployment on Astro. See [Create a Deployment](http://localhost:3000/astro/create-deployment).

## Choose a strategy

:::tip 

It is not necessary to choose the same approach for both connections and variables. Many a times, variables decide the flow of execution of your DAG and you might prefer to check them in to source control. You also might want to view or edit them via Airflow UI. For such cases, you can export your variables in a `json` file from Airflow UI, or use [`airflow_settings.yaml`](manage-connections-variables#local-only-airflow_settingsyaml), or [Airflow API]((manage-connections-variables#airflow-api)).

:::

We recommend that you use [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview) to run a local Airflow environment and test your DAGs locally before Deploying to Astro. There are 5 different approaches that are discussed here and you can choose the strategy that suits you best. Regardless of the strategy you choose, keep in mind the following:

> 

Author: @jwitz removing `on the control plane` because environment variables can be stored in either Dockerfile or in Control Plane.

- You are responsible to ensure the secrets are encrypted

### Environment Variables

:::tip IMPORTANT

Astronomer recommends this for local Airflow only

:::

You can use Airflow's system-level environment variables to store connections and variables. This strategy is good if you don't have a secrets backend, but you still want to take advantage of security and RBAC features to limit access to connections and variables. Generally, this strategy is used for local Airflow and the connections are prefixed using `AIRFLOW_CONN_` and variables using `AIRFLOW_VAR_` .

**Benefits**

- For local Airflow, if your local metadata database is corrupted or accidentally deleted, you still have access to all of your connections and variables in the `.env` file.
- You can export environment variables from local Airflow using the Astro CLI.
- In case you want to override, variables set using Environment Variables take precedence over variables defined in the Airflow UI.
- For Astro Deployment, you can edit/manage your connections and variables from the Cloud UI.
- Environment variables marked as secret are encrypted in the Astronomer control plane.

**Limitations**

> - Connections and Variables ***can't be*** viewed from the Airflow UI, but you can use them in your DAGs. Connections will also not be visible using `airflow connections list`

Author: I actually wanted to remove the second part @jwitz . so removing it, it just creates confusion because it's an airflow command.

- For local Airflow, you have to restart your local environment using `astro dev restart` whenever you make changes to your `.env` file.
- The environment variables are defined in plain text in `.env` and you can only mark them as a secret once you deploy to Astro.
- Connections are more difficult to format as URIs and JSON.
- It's not secure or centralized as a secrets backend.

### Airflow API

You can use the Airflow REST API to programmatically create Airflow connections and variables on a Deployment. Airflow objects created this way are stored in the Airflow metadata database. This strategy is good for teams setting up large Deployments with many Airflow connections and variables.

**Benefits**

- Manage secrets at a central point and programmatically load in Airflow using API
- Allow to have a secure as well as consistent environment for local and Astro
- Connections and variables are encrypted and stored in the Airflow metadata database
- Ability to see connections and variables from the UI
- Ability to export connections and variables using API

**Limitations**

- Dependency on a separate process to keep the secrets in sync.
- Ability to Airflow users to override

> - Secret values are omitted or redacted from the response when exporting connections/variables

Author: @jwitz removed the last comment also, it is not a limitation of this method, rather the limitation of the export using this method.

- You can use [List Connections API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connections) and [Get Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connection) to export connections.
- You can use [List Variables API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variables) and [Get Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variable) to export variables.
- You can use [Create Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_connection) and [Create Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_variables)

#### Secrets backend

- Import/export of your connections and variables will depend on the chosen secret manager's API. Refer [here](secrets-backend.md) for information on supported secrets backend.

#### Environment variables

- Import of connections and variables from the `.env` file is not possible either in local or Astro.

> - You can export both connections and variables from local to `.env` file in URI format. See [examples](manage-connections-variables#how-to-use-astro-cli-to-export-from-local)

Reviewer: There's just too many ways to import/ export variables, so I decided that we should document the easiest way.

> - You can export both connections and variables from local to `.env` file in URI format. See [examples](manage-connections-variables#how-to-use-astro-cli-to-export-from-local)

Author: @jwitz so this is actually incorrect. `astro dev object export` can only export if the variables are stored in Airflow Metadata database. I understand that you want to make it concise, let me try to do that in a different way.

> - You can export both connections and variables from local to `.env` file in URI format. See [examples](manage-connections-variables#how-to-use-astro-cli-to-export-from-local)

Author: `.env` objects are not exported actually, I re-tested.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Airflow API

You can use the [List Connections API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connections) and [Get Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_connection) to export connections from any Airflow environment.

You can use [List Variables API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variables) and [Get Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/get_variable) to export variables from any Airflow environment.

To import connections or variables to any Airflow environment, you can use the [Create Connection API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_connection) and [Create Variable API](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/stable-rest-api-ref.html#operation/post_variables) respectively.
```

> ### How to use Astro CLI to export from local
> 
> - **YAML**
> 
> ```bash
> # export connections in YAML format to conns.yaml in your astro project's include dir
> astro dev run connections export --file-format=yaml /usr/local/airflow/include/conns.yaml
> ```
> 
> - *JSON*
> 
> ```bash
> # export connections in JSON format to conns.json in your astro project's include dir
> astro dev run connections export --file-format=json /usr/local/airflow/include/conns.json
> 
> # print the connections in the default JSON format to STDOUT
> astro dev run connections export - --file-format=env --serialization-format=json
> 
> # export variables in JSON format to vars.json in your astro project's include dir
> astro dev run variables export /usr/local/airflow/include/vars.json
> ```
> 
> - URI
> ```bash
> # export all environment variables to .env file. It includes connections and variables stored as environment variables.
> astro dev object export --env-export 
> 
> # export all connection environment variables to .env file.
> astro dev object export --env-export --connections
> 
> # export all airflow variables stored as environment variables to .env file.
> astro dev object export --env-export --variables
> 
> # print the connections in the default URI format to STDOUT.
> astro dev run connections export - --file-format=env
> ```
> 
> ### How to use Astro CLI to import into Astro/Local
> 
> - **Astro**
> 
> ```bash
> # import into Astro variables and/or connections defined as environment variables in the .env file
> astro deployment variable create -d <deployment_id> --load --env .env
> ```
> 
> - **Local**
> ```bash
> # import connections into local Airflow from a json or yaml file 
> astro dev run connections import </path/to/your/file>
> 
> # import variables into local Airflow from a json file 
> astro dev run connections import </path/to/your/file>
> 
> # import variables into local Airflow from a yaml file 
> astro dev object import --settingsfile="myairflowobjects.yaml"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
